2/6/15

I created all of my character files that I spent several weeks on. I recently learned how to use eclipse, and during that time I created several files that are not useful to the project, so I apologize if some random files appear on the GitHub screen. I watched several tutorials online as to how to make a 2D plat former, so I was able to make a constructor and import tons of java things that I created, such as a character appearance and backgrounds. I also created my “main” method for my project, which is currently not very large, but seems to compile and has a substantial amount of variables. I also set the frame rate for the project, which I believe is 120fps in a standard window. Currently I am having a problem with my project because I accidentally copied several files that I didn’t need to, so I will spend this weekend updating the GitHub project webpage with my current files.

2/13/15

This week I added and removed a few things. On my older version from last week, my project imported several files that I had stored as part of the project. However, those files were not all completed, and some were unnecessary for the project, so right now I removed them and placed them in a new txt file called "Importing code for 20% project." When the time comes where I will actually have a use for those files, I will re-import them into my project. I also commented a few things, including some state variables and an extendable class that is not yet in use. The last thing I did was add about 4 short methods to my project. They basically set-up the game by returning the game in its base design, reseting the screen, etc... I also have one method that returns the screen width /window size, although I'm not sure if that is necessary for the users.

2/20/15

Sometime during the week, I realized that my files had been copying themselves (probably due to a mistake by me where I kept saving the same thing multiple times in different areas). Thus, I have several hundred file/folders/programs related to my project, when I really only need to have one hundred or so things (if that). So I spent most of Friday deleating overweening material or duplicates of files. I finally was able to deleate MANY excessive, unwanted files from the project folder, so I am left with a much smaller project size (making all transaction quicker and less confusing). Unfortunately, I already imported objects from their original location, but now I will have to re-import everything since just about all the objects have been pulled from their original location and moved somewhere else. I did learn how to add stuff to BlueJ library, making it much easier for me to import anything in the future, as there will be less errors. Overall, this week wasn't very productive code-wise, but I was able to simplify my project into something that I now actually understand how to work with!

2/27/15

FINALLY!!! I finally got all my import codes to work. After going through all and deleating all the repeated/excess files, my teacher helped me create a library in BlueJ. Here I was able to import code directly from my bin file to the project, so now half of my project compiles! Today, I added three things: start method which starts up the program; a stop method that stops the program; and a run method that runs the program (allowing it to start and stop upon command). I have been working nearly every weekend and several days a week, so I am fairly close to being done with the project base code. After that, I will need to fine tune all the code so that it compiles, and then see if it runs how I desire. I have the character files and map design ready, but I will probably make more changes to simply the leftover mess.

3/6/15

This past week I have been spending a few hours a night watching tutorials to create a method called render. This method is responsible for generating images such as geometry, displayed text, etc... This definately consumed most of my time this week, but I believe it works as it compiled. I also added an update method which simply updates things displayed on the screen. The last method I created was the main method, which is somewhat coded but does not work. I sort of squeezed in that method last night to make my project look a bit nicer :). Currently my project is 229 lines long, which may not seem like too much, but there is a bit more to it. I doubt that I will have more than 250 lines of code in my non-stop class, but if you count all the coding I have done for the character and backgrounds, then I have WAY more code. I hope that my deliverable will be correct, as I believe I said that I would have the character created by this week's deadline (which I do). 

3/13/15

The progress this week was moderately slow, however I was able to accomplish something I haven't been able to do up until now... my project finally compiled with no syntax errors!! I guess I wasn't really that far off to begin with, because all I had to do was alter about 5 lines of code from what I had last week and it compiled. A couple things that I will need to fix are: main(), MenuSelection.selection, and PauseSelection.selection. The main method doesn't seem like it will need a lot of work done to fix it, but right now I've just commented it out so I don't have to deal with its errors. As for MenuSelection and PauseSelection, I am constantly recieving errors about both of those commands. The error message reads that I have no class for either of those codes, when in reality I do. I have created class files for both, but I am not going to worry about it for now. I also added Java.doc to a couple of my methods, just so I know what my methods are doing. 